Skip Navigation <#pc-rtg-main>
 

	
giesting@alumni.nd.edu
Update Profile Information
<https://careers.peopleclick.com/careerscp/client_argonnelab/external/profile.do?functionName=getUpdateProfilePage>
| Sign Out
<https://careers.peopleclick.com/careerscp/client_argonnelab/external/registration.do?functionName=logout>

Job Details
View Search Results
<https://careers.peopleclick.com/careerscp/client_argonnelab/external/search.do?functionName=getSearchResult>
View Job Cart (0)
<https://careers.peopleclick.com/careerscp/client_argonnelab/external/jobcart.do?functionName=getJobCartPage>
Send This Job to a Friend
<https://careers.peopleclick.com/careerscp/client_argonnelab/external/jobDetails.do?functionName=emailFriend&jobPostId=8848&localeCode=en-us>
View My Account
<https://careers.peopleclick.com/careerscp/client_argonnelab/external/profile.do?functionName=getAccountSummaryPage>

Software Scientist-MICCoM
Requisition Number: 407706 	Location: Lemont, IL
Functional Area: Research and Development 	Division: MSD-Materials
Science Division
Employment Category: Temporary 6 Months or Greater 	Shift: 8:30 - 5:00
Level (Grade): RD1 	

Share: 	Share on Facebook! Facebook
<http://www.facebook.com/sharer.php?u=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.anl.gov%2Fcareers%2Fapply-job%2Fexternal-applicants%3FcpUrl%3Dhttps%3A%2F%2Fcareers.peopleclick.com%2Fcareerscp%2Fclient_argonnelab%2Fexternal%2Fen_US%2Fgateway.do%3FfunctionName%3DviewFromLink%26localeCode%3Den-us%26jobPostId%3D8848%26source%3DFacebook%26sourceType%3DNETWORKING_SITE&p[title]=Software%20Scientist-MICCoM>
	Share on LinkedIn! LinkedIn
<http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?mini=true&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.anl.gov%2Fcareers%2Fapply-job%2Fexternal-applicants%3FcpUrl%3Dhttps%3A%2F%2Fcareers.peopleclick.com%2Fcareerscp%2Fclient_argonnelab%2Fexternal%2Fen_US%2Fgateway.do%3FfunctionName%3DviewFromLink%26localeCode%3Den-us%26jobPostId%3D8848%26source%3DLinkedIn%26sourceType%3DNETWORKING_SITE&title=Software%20Scientist-MICCoM&summary=%3Cp%3EThe%20Midwest%20integrated%20center%20for%20computational%20materials%20(MICCoM%2C%20%3Ca%20rel%3D%22noopener%20noreferrer%22%20href%3D%22http%3A%2F%2Fmiccom-center.org%2F%22%20target%3D%22_blank%22%3E%3Cspan%20class%3D%22WGA2%22%3Ehttp%3A%2F%2Fmiccom-center.org%3C%2Fspan%3E%3C%2F&source=Company%20Career%20Site>
	Share on Twitter! Twitter
<http://twitter.com/share?url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.anl.gov%2Fcareers%2Fapply-job%2Fexternal-applicants%3FcpUrl%3Dhttps%3A%2F%2Fcareers.peopleclick.com%2Fcareerscp%2Fclient_argonnelab%2Fexternal%2Fen_US%2Fgateway.do%3FfunctionName%3DviewFromLink%26localeCode%3Den-us%26jobPostId%3D8848%26source%3DTwitter%26sourceType%3DNETWORKING_SITE&text=I%27m%20reading%20about%20this%20job%3A%20Software%20Scientist-MICCoM>


	

Position Description

The Midwest integrated center for computational materials (MICCoM,
http://miccom-center.org <http://miccom-center.org/>) has one opening
for a software scientist at Argonne National Laboratory to develop codes
to perform first principle molecular dynamics simulations and GW-BSE
calculations on pre-exascale and exascale platforms. 

Candidates are sought with experience in the development of scientific 
software for high performance architectures and experience in coding on
GPUs to support the development and deployment of Qbox
(http://qboxcode.org/ <http://qboxcode.org/>) and WEST
(http://www.west-code.org/ <http://www.west-code.org/>) onto accelerated
heterogeneous architectures based on GPUs. 

The successful candidate will work in collaboration with code teams,
library and tools developers, with frequent interactions with the
Argonne Leadership Computing Facility (ALCF) and the National Energy
Research Scientific Computing Center (NERSC). 

The candidate will be a part of a multidisciplinary team composed of
computational and domain scientists, graduate students and post-doctoral
research associates and will have the unique opportunity not only to
enable the transition of electronic structure codes to exascale
architecture, but also to participate in the use of these codes to
tackle complex materials science problems with focus on materials for
sustainability and quantum information science. 

The successful candidate may be considered for the promotion to staff
scientists at Argonne National Laboratory depending on performance and
mutual interest. 

Major duties and responsibilities:

  * Code porting for high performance architectures
  * Development of scientific workflows that leverage exascale resources
  * Debug/profile/optimization of software

Position Requirements

Skills and experience:

  * Experience with GPU and parallel/manycore computer architectures,
    threading, and vectorization
  * Proficient in C++, Fortran, Python
  * Experience with algorithm optimization and parallel programming
    (MPI, OpenMP)
  * Knowledge of software design, debugging/profiling tools
  * Ability to create, maintain, and support high-quality software using
    Git version-control system
  * Excellent communication skills both verbal and written
  * Considerable independent judgment and critical thinking
  * Ability to work in a team
  * Basic knowledge of Qbox and WEST is an advantage but is not required. 

Typical candidates will be independent, motivated and ambitious
individuals with MSc in Materials Science, Computer Science, Physics,
Chemistry or Chemical Engineering or with comparable skills and
experience. They will be individual motivated to work in an
interdisciplinary team and with an interest to possibly transition into
a staff position over a short period of time.

As an equal employment opportunity and affirmative action employer, and
in accordance with our core values of impact, safety, respect, integrity
and teamwork, Argonne National Laboratory is committed to a diverse and
inclusive workplace that fosters collaborative scientific discovery and
innovation. In support of this commitment, Argonne encourages
minorities, women, veterans and individuals with disabilities to apply
for employment. Argonne considers all qualified applicants for
employment without regard to age, ancestry, citizenship status, color,
disability, gender, gender identity, genetic information, marital
status, national origin, pregnancy, race, religion, sexual orientation,
veteran status or any other characteristic protected by law.

Argonne employees, and certain guest researchers and contractors, are
subject to particular restrictions related to participation in Foreign
Government Talent Recruitment Programs, as defined and detailed in
United States Department of Energy Order 486.1. You will be asked to
disclose any such participation in the application phase for review by
Argonneâ€™s Legal Department.

Move Up <#top> 	  	Back to top <#top>

View Search Results
<https://careers.peopleclick.com/careerscp/client_argonnelab/external/search.do?functionName=getSearchResult>
View Job Cart (0)
<https://careers.peopleclick.com/careerscp/client_argonnelab/external/jobcart.do?functionName=getJobCartPage>
Send This Job to a Friend
<https://careers.peopleclick.com/careerscp/client_argonnelab/external/jobDetails.do?functionName=emailFriend&jobPostId=8848&localeCode=en-us>
View My Account
<https://careers.peopleclick.com/careerscp/client_argonnelab/external/profile.do?functionName=getAccountSummaryPage>


	

jobDetails
