
  Pacific Northwest National Laboratory Jobs

Skip to Main Content <#direct_innerContainer>
Mobile navigation menu
home <https://www.pnnl.gov/> careers <https://www.pnnl.gov/careers>
Returning Applicants <https://careers.pnnl.gov/> Applicant FAQ
<https://jobs.pnnl.gov/fcg_faqs.stm>

pnnl logo <https://www.pnnl.gov/> pnnl logo abbreviated
<https://www.pnnl.gov/>

job title, keywords
/

/
city, state, country
/

/


    Job Information


      Pacific Northwest National Laboratory Data Scientist - Statistics,
      Early Career RICHLAND, Washington
      Apply Now <https://rr.jobsyn.org/1C3B7AD1806D468E8D4A622267CCEACA10>

*Organization and Job ID*

Job ID: 310918

Directorate: National Security Directorate

Division: Computing & Analytics

Group: Applied Statistics & Computational Modeling

*Job Description*

This position is for a Scientist in Data Science and Applied or
Mathematical Statistics who will provide scientific and technical
research within the National Security Directorate (NSD) supporting the
data analytics capabilities of the Computational Analytics Division. The
Scientist will develop and apply fundamental mathematical or statistical
theory to advance analytic solutions in various scientific domains. The
Scientist must be able to draw from a strong statistical background, in
areas including experimental design, advanced statistical modeling (e.g.
mixed linear models, nonparametric models, etc.), machine learning, and
computer simulations, to recognize patterns, characterize uncertainty,
and develop predictive models using structured and unstructured data.
The Scientist will produce solutions driven by domain science and
mathematical statistical science from complex and high-dimensional
datasets and design, develop, and evaluate advanced algorithms that lead
to optimal value extraction from data. In addition to technical research
this position expects participation and career development in task
management, proposal writing, business development, and publishing.

Operating on the data-information-knowledge continuum, staff at PNNL
employ diverse methods to confront significant problems of national
interest – from distilling distributed data into knowledge that supports
decision processes to enabling resilient technologies that enhance
computing at extreme scales. Our research portfolio – spanning from
basic to applied – includes statistical modeling and experimental
design, applied statistics, applied mathematics, machine learning,
operations research, optimization, and other advanced statistical and
mathematical domains.

Computing researchers and practitioners work side by side to apply
advanced theories, methods, algorithms, models, evaluation tools and
testbeds, and computational-based solutions to address complex
scientific challenges affecting energy, biological sciences, the
environment, and national security. Core domain knowledge is beneficial,
such as in the nuclear, biological, energy, materials, or chemical
science spaces.

*The hiring level will be determined based on the education, experience,
and skill set of the successful candidate based on the following:*

*Level II* : Leads specific tasks of the project to meet scope, schedule
and budget. Expected to contribute professionally, building a
professional reputation for technical expertise. Fully applying and
interpreting standard theories, principles, methods, tools and
technologies. Contributes technical content to proposals and develops
business through excellent project performance.

*Level III:* Manages small to moderate projects and/or major project
tasks. Integrates intellectual and technical capabilities of work teams.
Enhances technical/professional skills of junior staff through active
mentoring and training. Generates ideas for new proposals and
participates in business development activities

*Minimum Qualifications*

  * BS/BA with 2 years of experience, MS/MA with 0 years of experience,
    or PhD with 0 years of experience

*Preferred Qualifications*

  *

    BS/BA with 5 years of experience, MS/MA with 3 years of experience,
    or PhD with 1 year of experience, focused in statistics with
    experience involving increasing levels of scientific research, task
    management, and programmatic responsibility

  *

    Position requires ability to apply theories and develop technical
    approaches with minimal oversight

  *

    Position requires the ability to effectively team with scientists
    and engineers to develop creative solutions to complex problems

*Equal Employment Opportunity*

Battelle Memorial Institute (BMI) at Pacific Northwest National
Laboratory (PNNL) is an Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer
and supports diversity in the workplace. All employment decisions are
made without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age,
disability, veteran status, marital or family status, sexual
orientation, gender identity, or genetic information. All BMI staff must
be able to demonstrate the legal right to work in the United States. BMI
is an E-Verify employer. Learn more at jobs.pnnl.gov.

*/Please be aware that the Department of Energy (DOE) prohibits DOE
employees and contractors from participation in certain foreign
government talent recruitment programs. If you are offered a position at
PNNL and are currently a participant in a foreign government talent
recruitment program you will be required to disclose this information
before your first day of employment./*

*Other Information*

Due to business needs and client space, US Citizenship is required:

The Pacific Northwest National Laboratory is subject to the Department
of Energy Unclassified Foreign Visits & Assignment Program site,
information, technologies, and equipment access requirements.

/Directorate:/ /National Security/

/Job Category:/ /Scientists/Scientific Support/

/Group:/ /Appld Stats & Comp Modeling/

/Opening Date:/ /2020-06-03/

/Closing Date:/ /2020-09-01/

Apply Now <https://rr.jobsyn.org/1C3B7AD1806D468E8D4A622267CCEACA10>


      Current Search Criteria

  * Data Scientist - Statistics, Ear...
    <https://pnnl.jobs/richland/washington/usa/jobs/>
  * RICHLAND
    <https://pnnl.jobs/data-scientist-statistics-early-career/jobs-in/washington/usa/jobs/>

  * Washington
    <https://pnnl.jobs/data-scientist-statistics-early-career/jobs-in/usa/jobs/>

  * Clear All <https://pnnl.jobs/jobs/>

PNNL home <https://www.pnnl.gov/>

  * Get in Touch
  * Contact <https://www.pnnl.gov/contacts>
  * Careers <https://www.pnnl.gov/careers>
  * Doing Business <https://www.pnnl.gov/business/>
  * Security & Privacy <https://www.pnnl.gov/security-privacy>

  * Research
  * Scientific Discovery <https://www.pnnl.gov/scientific-discovery>
  * Energy Resiliency <https://www.pnnl.gov/energy-resiliency>
  * National Security <https://www.pnnl.gov/national-security>

US DOE home <https://www.energy.gov/>
Batelle <https://www.battelle.org/>
Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) is managed and operated by
Battelle for the Department of Energy

  * //youtube <http://www.youtube.com/user/PNNLgov>
  * //facebook <http://www.facebook.com/PNNLgov>
  * //twitter <http://twitter.com/PNNLab>
  * //instagram <https://www.instagram.com/pnnlab>
  * //linkedin
    <https://www.linkedin.com/company/pacific-northwest-national-laboratory>



      Affirmative Action/Equal Employment Opportunity


Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) is an Affirmative
Action/Equal Opportunity Employer and supports diversity in the
workplace. Learn more about Affirmative Action /Equal Employment
Opportunity at PNNL <https://jobs.pnnl.gov/eeo.stm> is an E-Verify
<http://www.jobs.pnnl.gov/everify.stm> employer.

Job information is updated daily. Website Contact: PNNL HR Webmaster
<mailto:hrwebmaster@pnnl.gov>

EOE including Disability/Protected Veterans
<https://www.dol.gov/ofccp/regs/compliance/posters/ofccpost.htm>

Reasonable Accomodation <https://jobs.pnnl.gov/help.stm>

DirectEmployers

