 
 
 
 
Skip to Main Content <javascript:SetMainConentFocus();>
Processing... please wait
 
 
 
ptnbsid=O64zDv%2f1zYvH106w9OgduVTtZuY%3d
My Favorite Jobs <javascript:DoBack('win0')>


  Job Description

Home
<javascript:DoHome('https://cg.sandia.gov/psc/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/s/WEBLIB_PTBR.ISCRIPT1.FieldFormula.IScript_StartPage')>
Actions <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'PT_ACTION_MENU');>

  *
      o
        Careers
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_HOME_PB');>
      o
        Search Jobs
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_VIEW_LAST_BTN');>
      o
        My Job Notifications
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_NOTIFY_BTN');>
      o
        My Job Applications
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_APP_BTN');>
      o
        My Favorite Jobs
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_FVO_JOB_BTN');>
      o
        My Saved Searches
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_SAVED_BTN');>
      o
        My Account Information
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_PROF_BTN');>
      o
        Sign Out
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_LOGOUT_PB');>
  *
  *
  *
      o
      o
      o
      o
        Home
        <javascript:DoHome('https://cg.sandia.gov/psc/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/s/WEBLIB_PTBR.ISCRIPT1.FieldFormula.IScript_StartPage')>
      o
      o
      o
      o
      o
      o
      o
        My Preferences
        <javascript:DoURLWarning('https://cg.sandia.gov/psc/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/PTGP_MENU.PTGP_USERPREF_FL.GBL?CONTEXTIDPARAMS=PSPR1---HRS_CG_SEARCH_FL')>
      o
        Help <javascript:DoHelp('PeopleSoft Online Help')>
      o
        Sign Out
        <javascript:DoLogout('https://cg.sandia.gov/psp/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/?cmd=logout')>

 
 
Close <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'PT_CONFIRM_CLOSE');>
Previous Job
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_FLU_HRS_PREVIOUS_PB');>
Job Title
R&D Statistician (Early-Mid Career)
Next Job
Apply for Job <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'APPLYJOB');>
Job ID
672529
Location
Albuquerque, NM
Full/Part Time
Full-Time
Regular/Temporary
Regular
Remove from Favorite Jobs
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'HRS_SCH_WRK2_HRS_FAVORITE_ICN$128$');>
Email this Job
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'HRS_SCH_WRK_HRS_CE_EML_FRND$148$');>


    What Your Job Will Be Like

 

*Passionate about your work and dream of utilizing state-of-the-art
facilities to explore solutions? Join our dynamic team to solves
significant issues and challenges for our nation's security!*

We are seeking a R&D Mathematics for our Statistical Sciences department
to perform statistical analysis and methodology development. The
successful applicant will collaborate with principal investigators and
consultants in wide ranging activities that extend across and outside
the Laboratories, by guiding statistical expertise and support to all of
Sandia mission areas. Activities will include project participation,
applied research and development, instructing, and publishing. Areas of
emphasis include:

  * Design of experiments, industrial statistics and statistical quality
    control
  * Probabilistic modeling and computer simulation
  * Bayesian statistics, spatial data analysis, and functional data analysis
  * Analytics, reliability and maintainability analysis, margin and
    uncertainty analysis, and metrology

On any given day, you may be called on to:

  * Conduct and handle technical work and lead interdisciplinary teams
    in developing and implementing innovative statistical solutions to
    challenging National security problems
  * Increase Sandia's capacity to conduct high quality interdisciplinary
    research across the lab
  * Collaborate on interdisciplinary teams to provide statistical
    expertise on data collection and analysis, methodology development,
    and applied statistical research


    Qualifications We Require

 

  * Advanced Degree (Master's or PhD) in Statistics or relevant field
  * Ability to obtain a DOE Q clearance


    Qualifications We Desire

 

  * Publication record indicative of relevant research expertise
  * Experience teaming in an interdisciplinary R&D environment
  * Experience collaborating with scientists from varied backgrounds
    with a preference for working in an engineering environment
  * Proven ability to acquire, prepare, and characterize real-world data
    for subsequent analysis


    About Our Team

 

The statistical sciences department provides innovative statistical
solutions to help tackle the most challenging national security issues.
We are leaders in the advancement of statistical methods for national
defense applications. Through research, collaboration, and education, we
advise the collection, analysis, and interpretation of data to help
Sandia execute its missions. We develop and deploy statistical
algorithms to significantly improve national security capabilities.


    About Sandia

 

Sandia National Laboratories is the nationâ€™s premier science and
engineering lab for national security and technology innovation, with
teams of specialists focused on cutting-edge work in a broad array of
areas. Some of the main reasons we love our jobs:

  * Challenging work with amazing impact that contributes to security,
    peace, and freedom worldwide
  * Extraordinary co-workers
  * Some of the best tools, equipment, and research facilities in the world
  * Career advancement and enrichment opportunities
  * Flexible schedules, generous vacations, strong medical and other
    benefits, competitive 401k, learning opportunities, relocation
    assistance and amenities aimed at creating a solid work/life balance*


/World-changing technologies. Life-changing careers.  /Learn more about
Sandia at: http://www.sandia.gov <http://www.sandia.gov/>

*These benefits vary by job classification.


    Security Clearance

 

Sandia is required by DOE to conduct a pre-employment drug test and
background review that includes checks of personal references, credit,
law enforcement records, and employment/education verifications.
Applicants for employment need to be able to obtain and maintain a DOE
Q-level security clearance, which requires U.S. citizenship. If you hold
more than one citizenship (i.e., of the U.S. and another country), your
ability to obtain a security clearance may be impacted.

Applicants offered employment with Sandia are subject to a federal
background investigation to meet the requirements for access to
classified information or matter if the duties of the position require a
DOE security clearance. Substance abuse or illegal drug use,
falsification of information, criminal activity, serious misconduct or
other indicators of untrustworthiness can cause a clearance to be denied
or terminated by DOE, resulting in the inability to perform the duties
assigned and subsequent termination of employment.


    EEO

 

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, national origin, age, disability, or veteran status and any
other protected class under state or federal law.

Apply for Job
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'HRS_SCH_WRK_HRS_APPLY_PB');>

 
test

<javascript:DoBack('win0')>
