 
 
 
 
Skip to Main Content <javascript:SetMainConentFocus();>
Processing... please wait
 
 
 
ptnbsid=O64zDv%2f1zYvH106w9OgduVTtZuY%3d
My Favorite Jobs <javascript:DoBack('win0')>


  Job Description

Home
<javascript:DoHome('https://cg.sandia.gov/psc/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/s/WEBLIB_PTBR.ISCRIPT1.FieldFormula.IScript_StartPage')>
Actions <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'PT_ACTION_MENU');>

  *
      o
        Careers
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_HOME_PB');>
      o
        Search Jobs
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_VIEW_LAST_BTN');>
      o
        My Job Notifications
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_NOTIFY_BTN');>
      o
        My Job Applications
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_APP_BTN');>
      o
        My Favorite Jobs
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_FVO_JOB_BTN');>
      o
        My Saved Searches
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_SAVED_BTN');>
      o
        My Account Information
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_PROF_BTN');>
      o
        Sign Out
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_LOGOUT_PB');>
  *
  *
  *
      o
      o
      o
      o
        Home
        <javascript:DoHome('https://cg.sandia.gov/psc/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/s/WEBLIB_PTBR.ISCRIPT1.FieldFormula.IScript_StartPage')>
      o
      o
      o
      o
      o
      o
      o
        My Preferences
        <javascript:DoURLWarning('https://cg.sandia.gov/psc/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/PTGP_MENU.PTGP_USERPREF_FL.GBL?CONTEXTIDPARAMS=PSPR1---HRS_CG_SEARCH_FL')>
      o
        Help <javascript:DoHelp('PeopleSoft Online Help')>
      o
        Sign Out
        <javascript:DoLogout('https://cg.sandia.gov/psp/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/?cmd=logout')>

 
 
Close <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'PT_CONFIRM_CLOSE');>
Previous Job
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_FLU_HRS_PREVIOUS_PB');>
Job Title
R&D Materials Scientist (Experienced)
Next Job
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_FLU_HRS_NEXT_PB');>
Apply for Job <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'APPLYJOB');>
Job ID
672548
Location
Livermore, CA
Full/Part Time
Full-Time
Regular/Temporary
Regular
Remove from Favorite Jobs
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'HRS_SCH_WRK2_HRS_FAVORITE_ICN$128$');>
Email this Job
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'HRS_SCH_WRK_HRS_CE_EML_FRND$148$');>


    What Your Job Will Be Like

 

We are seeking an experienced R&D Materials Scientist to lead an effort
in the area of dynamic processes in materials and solid-state devices,
including but not limited to the development of ultrafast optical and
electron-based methods to study structure-property relationships in
condensed matter systems. You exhibit strong scientific leadership, an
ability to work independently, and contribute creatively in an
interdisciplinary research environment. You will develop and lead
forefront research projects with internal and external funding sources,
present results at national/international meetings and conferences, and
publish leading-edge research in the peer-reviewed literature.


    Qualifications We Require

 

  * Ph.D. degree in physics, chemistry, materials science, engineering,
    or a closely related field
  * Experience with advanced characterization techniques to study
    dynamical processes in solid-state materials and condensed matter
    systems
  * Knowledge/experience of materials and condensed matter physics
  * Strong record of publications in peer-reviewed journals and
    presentations at scientific conferences as leading author
  * Experience developing successful scientific proposals


    Qualifications We Desire

 

  * Experience with ultrafast optical experimentation coupled with
    electron microscope
  * Comprehensive knowledge of emerging electronic materials, such as
    transition metal oxides, transition metal dichalcogenides, and low
    dimensional quantum materials
  * Research experience with emerging material and devices for energy
    efficient computing applications
  * Ability to obtain a DOE Q-clearance


    About Our Team

 

The Materials Physics team performs fundamental research on the
electronic and atomic structure and properties of materials to support
programs in energy research, device physics, materials reliability, and
national security. Specific activities include experimental and
theoretical studies of surface electronic and atomic structures;
dynamics of metals, oxides, low-dimensional materials, and adsorbates;
atomic-scale structure and composition analysis of metals,
semiconductors, and composites; electrical and optical properties of
low-dimensional semiconductors and optoelectronic devices; and the
structural and electrochemical characterization of solid-state ionic
materials. The team supports internal and external sponsors and
government agencies that seek solutions to problems of fundamental
scientific inquiry, energy sustainability, and national security.


    About Sandia

 

Sandia National Laboratories is the nationâ€™s premier science and
engineering lab for national security and technology innovation, with
teams of specialists focused on cutting-edge work in a broad array of
areas. Some of the main reasons we love our jobs:

  * Challenging work with amazing impact that contributes to security,
    peace, and freedom worldwide
  * Extraordinary co-workers
  * Some of the best tools, equipment, and research facilities in the world
  * Career advancement and enrichment opportunities
  * Flexible schedules, generous vacations, strong medical and other
    benefits, competitive 401k, learning opportunities, relocation
    assistance and amenities aimed at creating a solid work/life balance*


/World-changing technologies. Life-changing careers.  /Learn more about
Sandia at: http://www.sandia.gov <http://www.sandia.gov/>

*These benefits vary by job classification.


    Security Clearance

 

This position does not currently require a Department of Energy (DOE)
security clearance.

Sandia will conduct a pre-employment drug test and background review
that includes checks of personal references, credit, law enforcement
records, and employment/education verifications. Furthermore, employees
in New Mexico need to pass a U.S. Air Force background screen for access
to Kirtland Air Force Base. Substance abuse or illegal drug use,
falsification of information, criminal activity, serious misconduct or
other indicators of untrustworthiness can cause access to be denied or
terminated, resulting in the inability to perform the duties assigned
and subsequent termination of employment.

If hired without a clearance and it subsequently becomes necessary to
obtain and maintain one for the position, or you bid on positions that
require a clearance, a pre-processing background review may be conducted
prior to a required federal background investigation. Applicants for a
DOE security clearance need to be U.S. citizens. If you hold more than
one citizenship (i.e., of the U.S. and another country), your ability to
obtain a security clearance may be impacted.

Members of the workforce (MOWs) hired at Sandia who require uncleared
access for greater than 179 days during their employment, are required
to go through the Uncleared Personal Identity Verification (UPIV)
process. Access includes physical and/or cyber (logical) access, as well
as remote access to any NNSA information technology (IT) systems. UPIV
requirements are not applicable to individuals who require a DOE
personnel security clearance for the performance of their SNL employment
or to foreign nationals. The UPIV process will include the completion of
a USAccess Enrollment, SF-85 (Questionnaire for Non-Sensitive Positions)
and OF-306 (Declaration of for Federal Employment). An unfavorable UPIV
determination will result in immediate retrieval of the SNL issued
badge, removal of cyber (logical) access and/or removal from SNL
subcontract.  All MOWs may appeal the unfavorable UPIV determination to
DOE/NNSA immediately. If the appeal is unsuccessful, the MOW may try to
go through the UPIV process one year after the decision date.


    EEO

 

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, national origin, age, disability, or veteran status and any
other protected class under state or federal law.

Apply for Job
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'HRS_SCH_WRK_HRS_APPLY_PB');>

 
test

<javascript:DoBack('win0')>
