 
 
 
 
Skip to Main Content <javascript:SetMainConentFocus();>
Processing... please wait
 
 
 
ptnbsid=O64zDv%2f1zYvH106w9OgduVTtZuY%3d
My Favorite Jobs <javascript:DoBack('win0')>


  Job Description

Home
<javascript:DoHome('https://cg.sandia.gov/psc/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/s/WEBLIB_PTBR.ISCRIPT1.FieldFormula.IScript_StartPage')>
Actions <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'PT_ACTION_MENU');>

  *
      o
        Careers
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_HOME_PB');>
      o
        Search Jobs
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_VIEW_LAST_BTN');>
      o
        My Job Notifications
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_NOTIFY_BTN');>
      o
        My Job Applications
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_APP_BTN');>
      o
        My Favorite Jobs
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_FVO_JOB_BTN');>
      o
        My Saved Searches
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_SAVED_BTN');>
      o
        My Account Information
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_PROF_BTN');>
      o
        Sign Out
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_LOGOUT_PB');>
  *
  *
  *
      o
      o
      o
      o
        Home
        <javascript:DoHome('https://cg.sandia.gov/psc/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/s/WEBLIB_PTBR.ISCRIPT1.FieldFormula.IScript_StartPage')>
      o
      o
      o
      o
      o
      o
      o
        My Preferences
        <javascript:DoURLWarning('https://cg.sandia.gov/psc/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/PTGP_MENU.PTGP_USERPREF_FL.GBL?CONTEXTIDPARAMS=PSPR1---HRS_CG_SEARCH_FL')>
      o
        Help <javascript:DoHelp('PeopleSoft Online Help')>
      o
        Sign Out
        <javascript:DoLogout('https://cg.sandia.gov/psp/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/?cmd=logout')>

 
 
Close <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'PT_CONFIRM_CLOSE');>
Previous Job
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_FLU_HRS_PREVIOUS_PB');>
Job Title
Data Science (Early/Mid-Career)
Next Job
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_FLU_HRS_NEXT_PB');>
Apply for Job <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'APPLYJOB');>
Job ID
672536
Location
Albuquerque, NM
Full/Part Time
Full-Time
Regular/Temporary
Regular
Remove from Favorite Jobs
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'HRS_SCH_WRK2_HRS_FAVORITE_ICN$128$');>
Email this Job
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'HRS_SCH_WRK_HRS_CE_EML_FRND$148$');>


    What Your Job Will Be Like

 
We are seeking an outstanding Data Science (Systems Data Reserach
Analyst) professional to join our multi-disciplinary team!  You will
work in an innovative and collaborative environment to address national
security challenges through research and development in data science,
geospatial science, computer science, complex systems, autonomous
systems, artificial intelligence, and machine learning. 

On any given day, the successful candidate may be called on to:

  * Brainstorm new approaches to difficult problems
  * Publish work results in a technical journal or conference
  * Analyze and integrate information from multiple sources into a
    coherent form
  * Apply and combine innovative techniques from multiple fields of science
  * Discover and develop novel geospatial data algorithms and
    manipulation techniques
  * Advance the state-of-the-art in model validation


    Qualifications We Require

 

  * Master's degree in Computer Science, Mathematics, Geological
    Science, Statistics or other relevant discipline; or equivalent
    combination of relevant education and experience
  * Proficiency in computer programming languages such as Java, C++, or
    Python;
  * Ability to obtain and maintain a US DOE security Q clearance 


    Qualifications We Desire

 

  * Ph.D. in disciplines listed above or related subject
  * Demonstrated ability to conduct research and development
  * Experience in remote sensing, geospatial data and formats, or
    geospatial sciences;
  * Complex algorithm development experience
  * Demonstrated strong software development skills and familiarity with
    modern software development methodologies, practices, and tools
  * Experience working successfully with researchers, analysts, and
    other software engineers
  * Experience with modeling and simulation
  * Excellent communication skills and a demonstrated ability to develop
    technical ideas and results and present them in oral and written form


    About Our Team

 

The Complex Systems for National Security Group (Group 8720 in
Albuquerque, New Mexico) researches and applies mathematical,
computational science, and systems engineering approaches to analyze,
predict and influence the behavior of complex, highly interdependent
systems critical to our nation’s security. We provide capabilities
motivated by the challenge of understanding, quantifying, and
controlling the resilience of key complex systems critical to the
laboratories’ National Security mission. The approaches and capabilities
we provide are used to address complicated system and enterprise-level
challenges facing a diverse set of national security partners. We also
conduct work and advance capabilities in the areas of optimization, data
science, artificial intelligence/machine learning/deep learning, complex
systems modeling and analysis, and geospatial analytics.


    About Sandia

 

Sandia National Laboratories is the nation’s premier science and
engineering lab for national security and technology innovation, with
teams of specialists focused on cutting-edge work in a broad array of
areas. Some of the main reasons we love our jobs:

  * Challenging work with amazing impact that contributes to security,
    peace, and freedom worldwide
  * Extraordinary co-workers
  * Some of the best tools, equipment, and research facilities in the world
  * Career advancement and enrichment opportunities
  * Flexible schedules, generous vacations, strong medical and other
    benefits, competitive 401k, learning opportunities, relocation
    assistance and amenities aimed at creating a solid work/life balance*


/World-changing technologies. Life-changing careers.  /Learn more about
Sandia at: http://www.sandia.gov <http://www.sandia.gov/>

*These benefits vary by job classification.


    Security Clearance

 

Sandia is required by DOE to conduct a pre-employment drug test and
background review that includes checks of personal references, credit,
law enforcement records, and employment/education verifications.
Applicants for employment need to be able to obtain and maintain a DOE
Q-level security clearance, which requires U.S. citizenship. If you hold
more than one citizenship (i.e., of the U.S. and another country), your
ability to obtain a security clearance may be impacted.

Applicants offered employment with Sandia are subject to a federal
background investigation to meet the requirements for access to
classified information or matter if the duties of the position require a
DOE security clearance. Substance abuse or illegal drug use,
falsification of information, criminal activity, serious misconduct or
other indicators of untrustworthiness can cause a clearance to be denied
or terminated by DOE, resulting in the inability to perform the duties
assigned and subsequent termination of employment.


    EEO

 

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, national origin, age, disability, or veteran status and any
other protected class under state or federal law.

Apply for Job
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'HRS_SCH_WRK_HRS_APPLY_PB');>

 
test

<javascript:DoBack('win0')>
