 
 
 
 
Skip to Main Content <javascript:SetMainConentFocus();>
Processing... please wait
 
 
 
ptnbsid=O64zDv%2f1zYvH106w9OgduVTtZuY%3d
My Favorite Jobs <javascript:DoBack('win0')>


  Job Description

Home
<javascript:DoHome('https://cg.sandia.gov/psc/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/s/WEBLIB_PTBR.ISCRIPT1.FieldFormula.IScript_StartPage')>
Actions <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'PT_ACTION_MENU');>

  *
      o
        Careers
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_HOME_PB');>
      o
        Search Jobs
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_VIEW_LAST_BTN');>
      o
        My Job Notifications
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_NOTIFY_BTN');>
      o
        My Job Applications
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_APP_BTN');>
      o
        My Favorite Jobs
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_FVO_JOB_BTN');>
      o
        My Saved Searches
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_SAVED_BTN');>
      o
        My Account Information
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_MY_PROF_BTN');>
      o
        Sign Out
        <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_CG_HRS_LOGOUT_PB');>
  *
  *
  *
      o
      o
      o
      o
        Home
        <javascript:DoHome('https://cg.sandia.gov/psc/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/s/WEBLIB_PTBR.ISCRIPT1.FieldFormula.IScript_StartPage')>
      o
      o
      o
      o
      o
      o
      o
        My Preferences
        <javascript:DoURLWarning('https://cg.sandia.gov/psc/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/c/PTGP_MENU.PTGP_USERPREF_FL.GBL?CONTEXTIDPARAMS=PSPR1---HRS_CG_SEARCH_FL')>
      o
        Help <javascript:DoHelp('PeopleSoft Online Help')>
      o
        Sign Out
        <javascript:DoLogout('https://cg.sandia.gov/psp/applicant/EMPLOYEE/HRMS/?cmd=logout')>

 
 
Close <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'PT_CONFIRM_CLOSE');>
Previous Job
Job Title
R&D, Chemistry (Experienced)
Next Job
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'DERIVED_HRS_FLU_HRS_NEXT_PB');>
Apply for Job <javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'APPLYJOB');>
Job ID
672613
Location
Carlsbad, NM
Full/Part Time
Full-Time
Regular/Temporary
Regular
Remove from Favorite Jobs
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'HRS_SCH_WRK2_HRS_FAVORITE_ICN$128$');>
Email this Job
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'HRS_SCH_WRK_HRS_CE_EML_FRND$148$');>


    What Your Job Will Be Like

 

*Are you passionate about your work and willing to join a dynamic team
that helps seek solutions to some of the most challenging issues facing
our nation's security?*

We are seeking a dedicated and creative scientist or engineer in the
areas of chemistry or geoscience to support scientific investigations of
the geochemical environment and conditions of the Waste Isolation Pilot
Plant (WIPP), the world's only licensed and operating deep geological
repository for the disposal of transuranic waste. You will use your
experience with chemical analyses in brine systems to advance
geochemical models of WIPP’s chemical conditions. You will work with a
multi-disciplinary team to identify analyses needing to be performed,
design and conduct those analyses, leading to parameterization of the
geochemical models for WIPP.

On any given day, you may be called on to:

  * Plan and support daily work activities with the geochemistry team;
  * Participate directly in the geochemistry team’s work activities as
    needed;
  * Analyze, integrate, compile and trend experimental data and results,
    and prepare technical reports and documents for the DOE and Regulators;
  * Report on the progress of work done by the team;
  * Execute technical work such as Test Plans, Analyses Plans, Milestone
    Reports, and Analyses Reports;
  * Expertly guide the team on crafting scientific investigations;
  * Provide expert guidance on solving problems based on sound technical
    bases;
  * Provide expert guidance and technical recommendations to Management
    and DOE about geochemistry R&D roadmaps and strategic directions of
    geochemistry work.

/*Applicant must reside in or have the ability to reside in Carlsbad,
New Mexico.*/


    Qualifications We Require

 

  * Master's degree in Chemistry, Geoscience or closely related
    discipline (i.e. Chemical Engineering or Materials Science) with a
    minimum of seven years related experience, or a PhD, with three
    years related experience;
  * Experience with chemical analyses in brine systems;
  * Experience with analytical chemistry methods and experimental design;
  * Experience with aqueous geochemistry and solute and solvent
    interactions;
  * Ability to obtain and maintain a DOE L-level security clearance.


    Qualifications We Desire

 

  * Experience working with R&D in a regulatory environment;
  * Experience working within rigorous QA/QC requirements;
  * Working knowledge of the following instruments used in analytical
    chemistry: ICP-MS, ICP-AES, Ion Chromatograph, CO2 Coulometer, ASAP
    2020, Scanning electron microscope and Electron Dispersion
    Spectrometer, Gloveboxes, General: balances, pipettes, titrators, pH
    meters, stirrers, sonicator, glassware;
  * Working knowledge using equipment for high ionic strength solutions;
  * Familiarity with geochemical models that utilize ion
    speciation-solubility parameters;
  * Familiarity with operation of standard laboratory equipment, and
    standard laboratory processes.
  * Ability to coordinate and teach others basic chemistry tasks,
    including the operation of standard laboratory equipment, and
    standard laboratory processes.
  * Proven expertise in coordinating the management of multiple,
    competing sample collection, analysis, and data entry projects;
  * Demonstrated excellence in the technical field, excellent oral and
    written communication skills, and demonstrated interpersonal skills
    including respectful collaboration and communication.


    About Our Team

 

The Waste Isolation Pilot Plant (WIPP) is the world's only licensed and
operating deep geologic repository for the disposal of transuranic
waste. WIPP is operated by Nuclear Waste Partnership, LLC, under
contract to the Department of Energy's Carlsbad Field Office
(CBFO). Sandia provides scientific advice to CBFO in many areas,
including modifications to the repository's operating permits, periodic
recertification of the repository, on-going monitoring of repository
performance against regulatory requirements, and optimization of the
national transuranic waste complex.  The Repository Performance
Department, part of Sandia's Defense Waste Management Programs Group,
provides the experimental and fieldwork capability needed to assist CBFO
in assuring continued and uninterrupted certification and permitting of
WIPP.


    About Sandia

 

Sandia National Laboratories is the nation’s premier science and
engineering lab for national security and technology innovation, with
teams of specialists focused on cutting-edge work in a broad array of
areas. Some of the main reasons we love our jobs:

  * Challenging work with amazing impact that contributes to security,
    peace, and freedom worldwide
  * Extraordinary co-workers
  * Some of the best tools, equipment, and research facilities in the world
  * Career advancement and enrichment opportunities
  * Flexible schedules, generous vacations, strong medical and other
    benefits, competitive 401k, learning opportunities, relocation
    assistance and amenities aimed at creating a solid work/life balance*


/World-changing technologies. Life-changing careers.  /Learn more about
Sandia at: http://www.sandia.gov <http://www.sandia.gov/>

*These benefits vary by job classification.


    Security Clearance

 

Sandia is required by DOE to conduct a pre-employment drug test and
background review that includes checks of personal references, credit,
law enforcement records, and employment/education verifications.
Applicants for employment need to be able to obtain and maintain a DOE
L-level security clearance, which requires U.S. citizenship. If you hold
more than one citizenship (i.e., of the U.S. and another country), your
ability to obtain a security clearance may be impacted.

Applicants offered employment with Sandia are subject to a federal
background investigation to meet the requirements for access to
classified information or matter if the duties of the position require a
DOE security clearance. Substance abuse or illegal drug use,
falsification of information, criminal activity, serious misconduct or
other indicators of untrustworthiness can cause a clearance to be denied
or terminated by the DOE, resulting in the inability to perform the
duties assigned and subsequent termination of employment.


    EEO

 

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender
identity, national origin, age, disability, or veteran status and any
other protected class under state or federal law.

Apply for Job
<javascript:submitAction_win0(document.win0,'HRS_SCH_WRK_HRS_APPLY_PB');>

 
test

<javascript:DoBack('win0')>
